[MUSIC PLAYING]
The effects of mindfulness
on psychiatric patients
and the pursuit of happiness--
can we teach ourselves
how to be happier?
This is a Gaia News breakdown.
The term, "mindfulness,"
has entered popular culture
in recent years, but this
ancient Buddhist practice
actually began
gaining acceptance
in Western medicine
in the 1970s.
In a recent article for
"Psychiatric Times,"
researchers looked at how
mindfulness-based treatments
work for psychiatric patients
and how these therapies can
enhance and even replace
pharmaceutical interventions.
They found a wealth
of evidence that
mindfulness-based therapies have
overwhelmingly positive effects
for patients, with
mindfulness-based cognitive
therapy, reducing the
rate of relapse rates
for patients with
major depression,
similar to that of
pharmaceuticals.
They also showed reduced
anxiety, reduced depression,
and increased cognition.
The researchers
recommend implementing
mindfulness-based therapies
in place of or in concert
with pharmacotherapy,
especially as the population
grows older and cognitive
issues become more common.
What makes us truly happy?
Fame?
Fortune?
No.
True happiness may be
closer than you think.
And a recent study shows
we can learn to be happier.
Perhaps the most famous
study of happiness,
the Harvard Study of Adult
Development, began in 1938,
and studied students
at Harvard University
and coupled with another study
of kids from Boston's poorest
neighborhoods
throughout their lives
and remains the longest running
longitudinal study of happiness
and life satisfaction.
The main takeaway--
happiness and satisfaction
was not based on wealth
or fame or power,
but on strong friendships
and relationships.
Nowadays, we're
often more secluded.
Social media friends
are not real friends.
Computers take us away
from human contact.
When we compare our lives
to the curated lifestyles
we see on the internet, it
often makes us depressed.
But there is a way
to help cure that.
Just ask Laurie Santos,
professor of psychology
at Yale University.
She teaches the
free online course,
The Science of
Well-Being, a class
on increasing happiness and
ways to deal with habits
that can make us unhappy.
As she told "NewScientist,"
quote, "For many of us,
our happiness is much more under
our control than we think."
These controls include
practicing mindfulness,
the use of gratitude
journals, which
can help us avoid
hedonic adaption,
talking to strangers, which
can increase social connection,
and recognizing when we are
comparing ourselves to others
and shifting our focus
to something positive.
These tactics can be
significant and long lasting.
A recent study
conducted by Santos
showed people who took
the 10-week Science
of Well-Being class
compared to people
who took a general
psychology course were
significantly happier and
for a longer period of time.
Santos concludes that
courses like hers
are, quote, "A public
health tool that
could be used to improve mental
health in the population."
And as George Vaillant,
director of the Harvard
study for three
decades, once wrote,
"Happiness is love, full stop."
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.